.\"
.TH NUMAVERAGE 1 "2April,2011" "" "man page"
.SH "NAME"
numaverage \- Find the average of a set of numbers.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\&\fBnumaverage\fR [\-dhiIlmMV] <\s-1FILE\s0>
.PP
| \fBnumaverage\fR [\-dhiIlmMV]    (Input on \s-1STDIN\s0 from pipeline.)
.PP
\&\fBnumaverage\fR [\-dhiIlmMV]      (Input on \s-1STDIN\s0.  Use Ctrl-D to stop.)
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
By default 
\&\fBnumaverage\fR will determine the average from all numbers on input.  Other
options allow you to find the mode and median.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.Vb 2
\&    \-i  Only return the integer portion of the final sum.
\&    \-I  Only return the decimal portion of the final sum
\&
\&    \-m  Find the mode (most occuring) of the list of numbers,
\&        or when there\*(Aqs more than one mode, the first completed mode.
\&    \-M  Find the median (middle number) of the list of numbers.
\&    \-l  When finding the median and the count of numbers in the set is even,
\&        use the lower middle number instead of the upper middle number.
\&    \-h  Help: You\*(Aqre looking at it.
.Ve
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\&\fInumbound\fR\|(1), \fInuminterval\fR\|(1), \fInumnormalize\fR\|(1), \fInumgrep\fR\|(1), \fInumprocess\fR\|(1), \fInumsum\fR\|(1), \fInumrandom\fR\|(1), \fInumrange\fR\|(1), \fInumround\fR\|(1)
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Edern Hotte (edern.hotte@telecom-bretagne.eu)
.PP
Flavien Moullec (flavien.moullec@telecom-bretagne.eu)
.PP
Reuven Benichou (reuven.benichou@telecom-bretagne.eu)
.SH SEE ALSO
\&\fBaverage\fR\|(1), \fBbound\fR\|(1), \fBinterval\fR\|(1), \fBnormalize\fR\|(1), \fBprocess\fR\|(1), \fBsum\fR\|(1), \fBrandom\fR\|(1), \fBrange\fR\|(1), \fBround\fR\|(1)
.SH THANKS
This man page is inspirated by the documentation of num-utils (http://suso.suso.org/programs/num-utils/) 
