.\"
.TH NUMGREP 1 "April,2011" "" "man page"
.SH "NAME"
numgrep - This program is the numeric equivalent of the grep utility.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBnumgrep\fR [\-hR] <\s-1FILE\s0>
.PP
| \fBnumgrep\fR [\-hR] (Input on \s-1STDIN\s0 from pipeline.)
.PP
\fBnumgrep\fR [\-hR] (Input on \s-1STDIN\s0. Use Ctrl-D to stop.)
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B numgrep 
searches for different occurances of numbers through the use of numeric expressions.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.B -h
Help: You are looking at it.
.SH "EXPRESSIONS"
.IX Header EXPRESSIONS
.B numgrep
uses a special numeric expression matching system. Basically,
it searches for ranges, factors and sequences of numbers. Here is a list
of the syntax characters and some sample expressions that will get you
going:
.PP
.B /<expression>/
Put your expression or set of expressions between these two forward slashes.
.PP
.B ..   
Range expression. A number must be used on the left
and/or right of this expression to specify that numbers
between, greater than or less than the numbers specified
should be matched.
.PP
.B ,
Expression separator. The comma sepearates one complete
expression from another in a set enclosed by //.
.PP
.B m<n> Multiples of <n>.
This operator, followed by a number
<n> will match any number <x> that is an integer
multiple of <n>.  Meaning that <x> = <n> times <y>,
where <y> is any integer.
.PP
.B f<n> Factors of <n>.
This operator, followed by a number <n>
will match any number <x> that is an integer factor of <n>.
Meaning that <x> = <n> divided by <y>, where <y> is any integer.
.PP
.B Examples
.PP
/2..10/  Match any number between 2 and 10.
.PP
/2..10,20..30/  Match any number between 2 and 10 or between 20 and 30.
.PP
/56,34,512,45,67/  Match any of the numbers 56, 34, 512, 45 or 67.
.PP
/m3/  Match any integer that is a multiple of 3.
.PP
/f1024/  Match any integer that is a factor of 1024.

.SH "AUTHORS"
.PP
Edern Hotte (edern.hotte@telecom-bretagne.eu)
.PP
Flavien Moullec (flavien.moullec@telecom-bretagne.eu)
.PP
Reuven Benichou (reuven.benichou@telecom-bretagne.eu)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBnumaverage\fR\|(1), \fBnumbound\fR\|(1), \fBnuminterval\fR\|(1), \fBnumnormalize\fR\|(1), \fBnumprocess\fR\|(1), \fBnumrandom\fR\|(1), \fBnumrange\fR\|(1), \fBnumround\fR\|(1), \fBnumsum\fR\|(1) 
.SH "THANKS"
This man page is inspirated by the documentation of num-utils (http://suso.suso.org/programs/num-utils/).

