.IX Title "NUMRANGE 1"
.TH NUMRANGE 1 "April,2011" "" "man page"
.SH "NAME"
numrange \- Print out a range of numbers for use in for loops and such.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"
\fBnumrange\fR [\-dhV] /<expression>/
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"
\fBnumrange\fR
will print out a list of numbers based on an expression that you specify.  This
is useful for making a list of numbers for use in for loops and so on.
Ranges are inclusive.
Ranges of
numbers are specified using the .. operator, like this /20..50/, which means all
integers from 20 to 50 inclusive.  More complex expressions can be generated using the commas
and the 'i' increment operator.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.IX Header "OPTIONS"
.TP
.B -e <set>
Exclude the <set> of numbers from the range output. <set> is a set of numbers separated by commas.
.TP
.B -n <n>
Use <n> as the separator between numbers. By default, it will use a space. Use '\\n' or \\\\n for a newline character or use the -N option.
.TP
.B -N
Just a quick option for using a newline as the separator.
.TP
.B -h
Help: You are looking at it.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.IX Header "EXAMPLES"
All numbers from 1 to 10 : $ numrange /1:10/
.PP
From 10 to 1. Counting down : $ numrange /10:1/
.PP
From 1 to 10 and from 15 to 20 : $ numrange /1:10,15:20/
.PP
Even numbers from 0 to 10 : $ numrange /0:10i2/
.PP
Odd numbers. Notice the starting number in the range expression : $ numrange /1:10i2/
.PP
Factors of 3 between 99 and 120 : $ numrange /99:120i3/
.PP
Decimal numbers : $ numrange /1.1:2.5i0.1/
.PP
And negative numbers too : $ numrange /1.0:-2.0i0.3/
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Edern Hotte (edern.hotte@telecom-bretagne.eu)
.PP
Flavien Moullec (flavien.moullec@telecom-bretagne.eu)
.PP
Reuven Benichou (reuven.benichou@telecom-bretagne.eu)
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBnumaverage\fR\|(1), \fBnumbound\fR\|(1), \fBnumgrep\fR\|(1), \fBnuminterval\fR\|(1), \fBnumnormalize\fR\|(1), \fBnumprocess\fR\|(1), \fBnumrandom\fR\|(1), \fBnumround\fR\|(1), \fBnumsum\fR\|(1)
.SH THANKS
This man page is inspirated by the documentation of num-utils (http://suso.suso.org/programs/num-utils/).
