.IX Title "NUMROUND 1"
.TH NUMROUND 1 "2 April,2011" "" "man page" Documentation"
.SH "NAME"
numround \- A program that rounds off numbers it encounters.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"
\&\fBnumround\fR [\-cdfhV] <\s-1FILE\s0>
.PP
| \fBnumround\fR [\-cdfhV]   (Input on \s-1STDIN\s0 from pipeline.)
.PP
\&\fBnumround\fR [\-cdfhV]     (Input on \s-1STDIN\s0.  Use Ctrl-D to stop.)
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"
\&\fBnumround\fR
will simply round decimal numbers to the nearest integer or to a factor of any
number using the \-n option.  You can also force it to round up (ceiling) or
round down(floor) using the \-c and \-f options.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.IX Header "OPTIONS"
.Vb 3
\&    \-c      Force the number to be rounded up. Ceiling.
\&    \-f      Force the number to be rounded down. Floor.
\&    \-n <n>  Round numbers to the nearest factor of <n>.
\&
\&    \-h      Print out some helpful information about numround.
\&    \-V      Increase verbosity.  This will print out numbers as it finds them.
\&    \-d      Debug mode.  For developers only.
.Ve
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IX Header "SEE ALSO"
\&\fInumaverage\fR\|(1), \fInumbound\fR\|(1), \fInuminterval\fR\|(1), \fInumnormalize\fR\|(1), \fInumgrep\fR\|(1), \fInumprocess\fR\|(1), \fInumsum\fR\|(1), \fInumrandom\fR\|(1), \fInumrange\fR\|(1)
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Edern Hotte (edern.hotte@telecom-bretagne.eu)
.PP
Flavien Moullec (flavien.moullec@telecom-bretagne.eu)
.PP
Reuven Benichou (reuven.benichou@telecom-bretagne.eu)
.SH SEE ALSO
\&\fBaverage\fR\|(1), \fBbound\fR\|(1), \fBinterval\fR\|(1), \fBnormalize\fR\|(1), \fBprocess\fR\|(1), \fBsum\fR\|(1), \fBrandom\fR\|(1), \fBrange\fR\|(1), \fBround\fR\|(1)
.SH THANKS
This man page is inspirated by the documentation of num-utils (http://suso.suso.org/programs/num-utils/) 
